---
title: "home"
bg: white
color: black
style: left
---

{: .text-purple}
<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:80px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-vial fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-vial fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>
<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:80px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-microscope fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-microscope fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>
<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:80px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-desktop fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-desktop fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>
<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:80px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-heart fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-heart fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>

{: .text-purple}

# **In fluorescence, software is key**

**The webiste is currently under construction.**

## The current state of the community

Fluorescence microscopy and spectroscopy are widely used to study biological processes on the cellular and molecular scale in real time, 
and provide key insights towards building a spatial, temporal and logical model of the cell as a whole. While many labs are equipped with
state-of-the-art fluorescence microscopes, quantitative analysis of the acquired data often involves the use of complex algorithms and methodologies that are not easily implemented. Despite the free availability of many software packages, data analysis thus remains challenging. In our view, this situation caused by the following issues:

1. Keeping up with the newest method developments is difficult due to *fragmented* and non-standardized software development.

2. Interfacing between different software packages is cumbersome due to the lack of agreed-upon *exchange file formats*, making it difficult to implement custom workflows involving multiple sofwares.

3. Custom implementations of published algorithms are also rarely *benchmarked* and tested independently, making the assessment of the validity of reported results difficult.

## Our vision

We plan to bring the fluorescence software community together to provide:

* *newcomers* an **overview of existing software packages**, their use cases and contact information for active 
developers, and a forum to ask questions or request features.
* *software* developers a platform to **present** their software packages and discuss problems with other developers.

Moreover, we aim to:

* Increase the **compatibility** of existing software packages through common file exchange formats and interfaces.
* Increase the **trustworthyness** of algorithms through quality control and common standards.

Our vision is to provide the fluorescence microscopist and spectroscopist a bag of Legos that he or she can assemble 
into a custom workflow with minimal effort.
